ETH was one of the first blockchain to introduce the concept of decentralized state/programs.
These are populrly known as smart contracts on the ETH blockchain.




Accounts on Solana ->

Accounts 
   On the Solana blockchain, an "account" is a fundamental data structure used to store various types of information.
   Types of Information -> 
        1. Data Storage: Accounts on Solana are used to store data required by programs (Smart contracts) or to maintain state.
        2. Lamports: Accounts hold a balance of Solana's native cryptocurrency, lamports. Lamports are used to pay for transaction fees to rent space that the account occupies on the blockchain.
        3. Programs: On Solana, programs are special accounts that conatain executable code. These accounts are distinct from regular data accounts in that they are desigend to be executed by the blockchain when triggered by a transaction.




Whenever we explore any account in solana we have to worry about only these  four things ->

    1.How much lamports does it have 
    2.Does it have any data 
    3.is it executable 
    4.Owner/Assigned program id 
      



Q.What is Rent on Solana and How to Calculate it ? 

#Rent 

   Rent | Rent Exemption amount

   Rent is a mechanism on the solana blockchain that ensures efficient usage of the blockchain's resources.
   It Requires accounts to maintain balance proportional to the amount of data they store in the network.
   Accounts that fail to maintain this minimum balacnce will be removed from the ledger to free up storage.
   You can think of it is a similar to a bank account, for many accounts, the bank will charge you a fee if you do not maintain a minimum balance.
   if your balance fails below the required minimumm the bank may charge you a fee or close your account. Solana rent is like the minimum balance requirement ensuring that accounts on 
   the network have enough lamports (a lamport is one one-billion of a SOL to cover network storage costs). if an account's balance fails below the rent-Exemptl
   threshold, the account may be removed from the network. Rent is refundable if an account is closed (removed form the network), the data is deleted from the chain 
   and the rent is refunded to the account owner for other defined account.;



What is the diff between mainnet, devnet and testnet ?

-> mainnet - is a network which is real world network remotely where we have to buy and sell some real sol 
-> devent - is also a remotely network but it is only for development purpose we can airdrop ourself sol for developing purpose 
-> testnet - is i local network where we can airdrop sol for testing purpos in our local machine only..





Smart contract are backend application deployed on the blockchain. 


## steps to creating the Token in Solana ->

                 1. Create a new Cli Wallet -> Solana-keygen new
                 2. Set the RPC url -> solana config set --url https://api.devnet.solana.com
                 3. Airdrop yourself some sole -> solana airdrop 1 
                 4. Check your balance -> solana balance
                 5. create token mint -> spl-token create-token
                 6. Verify token mint on chain 
                   // we have to specify two thing for creating the account after mint 
                     1.Whose bank account do you want to open
                     2.What currency do you want to  that your bank account on 
                 7. Check the supply of the token -> spl-token supply 5D2wThVRdJhEounWv7UhMm49wrzVDfftr6KFWWrX4eBx
                 8. Create an assocociated token account - spl-token create-account   (mint address of this token)
                 9. Mint some tokens to yourself
                 10.Check your balances in the explorer
                 11.Import the token in Phantom and see the balances
