jsonrpc 
rpc = remote procedure call

JSON-RPC is a remote procedure call(RPC) protocal endcoded in JSON (Javascript Object Notation).it allows for communtication between a client and a 
server a network. JSON-RPC enables a client to invoke methods on a server and recieve response, similar to traditional RPC protocols but using JSON for data formating.


As a user, You interact with the blockchain for two purposes
  1. To send a transaction 
  2. To fetch some details from the blockchain(balance etc)


In both of these, the way to interact with the blockchain is using JSON-RPC 
JSON RPC spec - https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification

There are Other ways to do RPC's like GRPC, TRPC 

An RPC server is not inherently part of the blockchain network itself, nor does it participate in staking or consensus mechanisms
     You can grab your own RPC server from one of many providers - 
          1.Quicknode
          2.Alchemy
          3.Helius
          4.Infura



ETH ----> 

    Wei: 
       - Defination - Wei is the smallest unit of cryptocurrency in the Etherum network. it's similar to how a cent is to a doller.
       - Value - ! Ether (ETH) = 10^18 Wei.

    Gwei - 
        - Defination: A larger unit of Ether commonly used in the context of gas prices.
        - Conversion: 1 Ether = 10^9 Gwei


   Lamports 
       - in the Solana Blockchain, the smallest unit or currency is called a lamport. Just as wei is to 
         Ether in Ethereum, lamports are to SOL (the native token of Solana).

       - 1 SOL = 10^9 Lamports   

               
  



  Web-based Crypto Wallet

 
            Steps to create Crypto wallet 
                   
                      1.npm create vite@latest web-wallet 

                      2.install key libs 
                      npm install ethers bip39 @ethersproject/hdnode js-sha256
                      and for solana 
                      npm install @solana/web3.js bip39 ed25519-hd-key tweetnacl



                      2. App architecture (high level)

                          Pages / components:

                         Onboarding: Create or Import mnemonic

                          Wallet Dashboard: list accounts, balances

                         Account Detail: transaction history & send

                          Settings: export encrypted backup, network selection

                         Data layer:

                         walletStore (Zustand or Context) to hold encrypted storage, unlocked mnemonic in memory, and derived accounts.

                         Networking:

                         Use provider abstraction that takes RPC URL (Alchemy/Infura): Ethers JsonRpcProvider.

                          Persistence:
 
                         Encrypted storage in localStorage or IndexedDB — never store plaintext mnemonic.

                         3. Mnemonic creation & derivation (Ethereum/EVM)

                          Use bip39 and ethers hd node.



                      3.

   